
Ethernet Terms:

References:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethernet_physical_layer

http://pluto.ksi.edu/~cyh/cis370/ebook/ch02c.htm

MAC: Media Access Control  : Access to NIC

MII: Media Independent Interface http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_Independent_Interface (16 pins for data and control)
    Connect between PHY Chip and MAC

RMII: Reduced Media-independent interface (7 pins for data and control)

SMI: Station Management Interface 

MMC: MAC Management Counter: statistic generation registers for rx and tx frames.
NIC: Network Interface Card

OSI: Open Systems Interconnection 

CSMA/CD (carrier sense multiple access with collision detection):

PTP: Precision Time Protocol

--------------------------------------------------
Olimex board uses a:
KS8721BL

Micrel MII Physical Layer Transceiver.
    ETH_RMII connections from STM32

--------------------------------------------------
Ethernet Layers
    OSI Layer       Down the Stack  Up the Stack 
    Application     All             Away
    Presentation    People          Pizza
    Session         Seem            Sausage
    Transport       To              Throw
    Network         Need            Not
    Data Link       Data            Do
    Physical        Processing      Please


Data Link: Logical Link Control Media Access Control

    Logical Link Control (LLC) Sublayer
    
    The LLC sublayer manages data-link communication and defines the use of
logical interface points called service access points (SAP). Other computers
can refer to and use SAPs to transfer information from the LLC sublayer to the
upper OSI layers. Category 802.2 defines these standards.
    
    Media Access Control (MAC) Sublayer
    
    As Figure 5.9 indicates, the MAC sublayer is the lower of the two
sublayers, providing shared access to the physical layer for the computers'
NICs. The MAC layer communicates directly with the NIC and is responsible for
delivering error-free data between two computers on the network.
    
    
Application Layer

Layer 7, the topmost layer of the OSI reference model, is the application
layer. This layer relates to the services that directly support user
applications, such as software for file transfers, database access, and e-mail.
In other words, it serves as a window through which application processes can
access network services. A message to be sent across the network enters the OSI
reference model at this point and exits the OSI reference model's application
layer on the receiving computer. Application-layer protocols can be programs in
themselves, such as File Transfer Protocol (FTP), or they can be used by other
programs, such as Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP), used by most e-mail
programs, to redirect data to the network. The lower layers support the tasks
that are performed at the application layer. These tasks include general
network access, flow control, and error recovery.

Presentation Layer

Layer 6, the presentation layer, defines the format used to exchange data among
networked computers. Think of it as the network's translator. When computers
from dissimilar systems—such as IBM, Apple, and Sun—need to communicate, a
certain amount of translation and byte reordering must be done. Within the
sending computer, the presentation layer translates data from the format sent
down from the application layer into a commonly recognized, intermediary
format. At the receiving computer, this layer translates the intermediary
format into a format that can be useful to that computer's application layer.
The presentation layer is responsible for converting protocols, translating the
data, encrypting the data, changing or converting the character set, and
expanding graphics commands. The presentation layer also manages data
compression to reduce the number of bits that need to be transmitted.

The redirector, which redirects input/output (I/O) operations to resources on a
server, operates at this layer. Redirectors are discussed in Chapter 8,
"Designing and Installing a Network."

Session Layer

Layer 5, the session layer, allows two applications on different computers to
open, use, and close a connection called a session. (A session is a highly
structured dialog between two workstations.) The session layer is responsible
for managing this dialog. It performs name-recognition and other functions,
such as security, that are needed to allow two applications to communicate over
the network.

The session layer synchronizes user tasks by placing checkpoints in the data
stream. The checkpoints break the data into smaller groups for error detection.
This way, if the network fails, only the data after the last checkpoint has to
be retransmitted. This layer also implements dialog control between
communicating processes, such as regulating which side transmits, when, and for
how long.

Transport Layer

Layer 4, the transport layer, provides an additional connection level beneath
the session layer. The transport layer ensures that packets are delivered error
free, in sequence, and without losses or duplications. At the sending computer,
this layer repackages messages, dividing long messages into several packets and
collecting small packets together in one package. This process ensures that
packets are transmitted efficiently over the network. At the receiving
computer, the transport layer opens the packets, reassembles the original
messages, and, typically, sends an acknowledgment that the message was
received. If a duplicate packet arrives, this layer will recognize the
duplicate and discard it.

The transport layer provides flow control and error handling, and participates
in solving problems concerned with the transmission and reception of packets.
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and Sequenced Packet Exchange (SPX) are
examples of transport-layer protocols.

Network Layer

Layer 3, the network layer, is responsible for addressing messages and
translating logical addresses and names into physical addresses. This layer
also determines the route from the source to the destination computer. It
determines which path the data should take based on network conditions,
priority of service, and other factors. It also manages traffic problems on the
network, such as switching and routing of packets and controlling the
congestion of data.

If the network adapter on the router cannot transmit a data chunk as large as
the source computer sends, the network layer on the router compensates by
breaking the data into smaller units. At the destination end, the network layer
reassembles the data. Internet Protocol (IP) and Internetwork Packet Exchange
(IPX) are examples of network-layer protocols.

Data-Link Layer

Layer 2, the data-link layer, sends data frames from the network layer to the
physical layer. It controls the electrical impulses that enter and leave the
network cable. On the receiving end, the data-link layer packages raw bits from
the physical layer into data frames. (A data frame is an organized, logical
structure in which data can be placed. Data frames are discussed in more detail
in Chapter 3, Lesson 4: Token Ring.) The electrical representation of the data
(bit patterns, encoding methods, and tokens) is known to this layer only.

Figure 5.3 shows a simple data frame. In this example, the sender ID represents
the address of the computer that is sending the information; the destination ID
represents the address of the computer to which the information is being sent.
The control information is used for frame type, routing, and segmentation
information. The data is the information itself. The cyclical redundancy check
(CRC) provides error correction and verification information to ensure that the
data frame is received correctly.



Figure 5.3 A simple data frame

The data-link layer is responsible for providing error-free transfer of these
frames from one computer to another through the physical layer. This allows the
network layer to anticipate virtually error-free transmission over the network
connection.

Usually, when the data-link layer sends a frame, it waits for an acknowledgment
from the recipient. The recipient data-link layer detects any problems with the
frame that might have occurred during transmission. Frames that were damaged
during transmission or were not acknowledged are then re-sent.

Physical Layer

Layer 1, the bottom layer of the OSI reference model, is the physical layer.
This layer transmits the unstructured, raw bit stream over a physical medium
(such as the network cable). The physical layer is totally hardware-oriented
and deals with all aspects of establishing and maintaining a physical link
between communicating computers. The physical layer also carries the signals
that transmit data generated by each of the higher layers.

This layer defines how the cable is attached to the NIC. For example, it
defines how many pins the connector has and the function of each. It also
defines which transmission technique will be used to send data over the network
cable.

This layer provides data encoding and bit synchronization. The physical layer
is responsible for transmitting bits (zeros and ones) from one computer to
another, ensuring that when a transmitting host sends a 1 bit, it is received
as a 1 bit, not a 0 bit. Because different types of media physically transmit
bits (light or electrical signals) differently, the physical layer also defines
the duration of each impulse and how each bit is translated into the
appropriate electrical or optical impulse for the network cable.

This layer is often referred to as the "hardware layer." Although the rest of
the layers can be implemented as firmware (chip-level functions on the NIC),
rather than actual software, the other layers are software in relation to this
first layer. 




